(1) Github repository: https://github.com/irith-k/Machine-Learning-QBIO481
(2) (a) SELEX-seq is an in vitro method used to identify DNA or RNA sequences that specifically bind to a target protein, typically a transcription factor. It involves an iterative process of selecting nucleic acid sequences that bind to the protein of interest from a diverse library of sequences and then amplifying and sequencing the enriched sequences. PBM is another in vitro technique that involves a microarray containing a large number of unique DNA sequences immobilized on a solid support. It is used to identify the binding preferences of a protein by exposing it to the microarray and quantifying its binding to different sequences.
    (b) ChIP-seq is an in vivo method used to study protein-DNA interactions in a cellular context. It involves the cross-linking of proteins to DNA, immunoprecipitating the protein of interest with specific antibodies, and then sequencing the associated DNA fragments to identify the genomic regions to which the protein binds.
    (c) The advantage of SELEX-seq is that it can identify high specificity binding sequences for target protein. The advantage of PBM is that it is high-throughput, so one can test many sequences simultaneously. The disadvantage of PBM is that it does not fully represent in vivo conditions. The advantages of ChIP-seq are that it provides information into the psychological relevance of protein-DNA interactions, and can be used to study the entire genome. The disadvantage of ChIP-seq is that its data analysis is much more complex than that of the in vitro methods.
(3) See gcPBM-script.R
(4) Mad average R-squared: 0.8193323
    Max average R-squared: 0.8246462
    Myc average R-squared: 0.8163754
(5) (a) See gcPBM-plot.png
    (b) Because the red bar is always higher than the blue bar, for each dataset, the linear regression model is a better (closer) fit to the data when trained on 1-mer and shape versus only 1-mer features.
(6) See CTCF-script.R
(7) [Did not complete]
(8) [Did not complete]